# FingerprintChecker
Biometrics is a technology that can identify a person based on his physical characteristics. Identification and fingerprint recognition is a biometric method that is widely used in different types of applications because of its accuracy and reliability.

The main goal of this project is to develop a system that will be able to recognize whether two prints come from the same person or not. For this purpose, the images are first collected from a public dataset. Then digital imaging techniques are applied to the same images in order to improve their quality. Once the image is reprocessed, the so-called image is searched. critical points that are later compared according to their Hamming distance. 

Minarization 
Image bias allows us to clear the image from unnecessary noise and helps us to contrast between the "wrinkled" surface of the print and the other lines.

Image Skeletonization 
In order to improve the process of searching for critical points on the printout, it is advisable to sketch the image itself. This creates more unique and stronger critical points. The skeletonization is based on Zhang-Suen's algorithm.  Requesting minutiae points  Once you get the skeleton image, the next step would be to find crossing points on the print reefs, which are then called minutiae points. This can be done with the help of a critical point detector, which requires a great deal of local contrast change. Such is the Harris Corner detector [3]. Because the Harris Corner detector is capable of detecting strong angles and edges, this is ideal for the fingerprint problem, where the most important minimums are short edges and bifurcations, where the edges are collected. The critical points found can be seen in the figure.  Defining a formal descriptor Once the list of critical points is obtained, a formal descriptor of the local region around that point should be created so that it can be uniquely identified among the other critical points. Since the orientation of the printout may vary (not a fixed position), we need a descriptor that is robust to such small differences. One of the most commonly used descriptors for this purpose is the ORB descriptor. With this method we can obtain a descriptor for each critical point and form a matrix of such descriptors that identifies the printout.  Comparison of prints Once the two-fingerprint descriptor matrices are obtained, an algorithm for their comparison is needed. The simplest way is to search with so called coarse force along the Hamming distance between descriptors at 2 different points. This way we get a rating indicating how similar those 2 prints are. Setting a threshold can determine whether or not the prints are the same. Another way is to compare the original fingerprint with all the fingerprints found in our fingerprint database and select the one that has the best score of all - in order to identify the input fingerprint.

Conclusion 
This project developed a fingerprint recognition system based on the method of finding critical points. These points are then used to find formal descriptors of the region around them and thereby form a matrix that identifies the impression itself.
